The last thing that we need to check
is whether or not that succeeded.
And we said that we return an empty
array in the case of failure,
a non-empty array in the case of success.
So if res.length is greater than 0,
Matched successfully.
Thumbs up, thumbs down.
How are we following, so far in the logic?
Is it making sense?
You can give me thumbs sideways.
If you're still iffy.
I get it.
All right.
Some of you haven't coded a lot
like this before, and that's okay.
>> Someone said I can see where comments
help a lot for an algorithmist.
>> Thank you.
I'm glad that point is clearly
made already.
I could not write code without code
comments if I was in a language that
didn't allow it, I would give up and
find a different career.
All right.
If this was successful then we know that
everything to the right of our pivot
point, all the rest of the characters,
we've got an array of
symbols that match those.
And we know we have a symbol for
the first one or
two characters of what we were passed.
So we know we're good.
So we finally now can return
an array with all of that in it.
We return symbol and we return and
that...there is saying spread
out everything, not rest, res.
Spread out everything in res.
Maybe I should have called that rest,
I don't know.
But this is gonna spread out that
array of whatever was returned to us,
one element or 20 elements.
And then it will append this to
the beginning and return that new array.
We've got another else
condition to consider,
which is what if we had
just gotten to the end?
Remember I have this if statement here
that says, do we have any characters left?
What if we don't have any characters left?
Well, then we know we're done.
So what do we do?
We just return an array
with only the symbol in it.
It's like returning the first
part of this answer.
Here we only need to return The only thing
that we have to return is
the symbol that we know we matched.
And if you run through this in your mind,
do a couple of mental executions
with a couple of those test words.
For example, take the test word yucky.
Just think through it in your mind.
We're gonna go through a whole
bunch of elements until we
find one that has a y in it or a yu.
I don't even know if there is a yu,
but we know there is a y.
Okay?
So let's assume that there's only a y.
We're gonna find the y element
that's gonna be the first time that
this if statement passes is when we
found the element where the first
character of the word yucky matches
the periodic table element y.
Which I don't even know what that element
is like it's on the other screen,
I'm not gonna switch over to it.
But whatever that element is, it's the y.
Okay?
So what's gonna happen here?
We're gonna say, do I have any
more letters in my word to do?
Yes, I still have the u-c-k-y part.
I did the y, but
I still got the last four.
So we're gonna go into that branch and
we're gonna say give me the symbols for
the u-c-k-y word.
As if somebody had only typed u-c-k-y,
right?
I know I've got y and
I need you to figure out if you can spell
the rest of this word with periodic table.
We know that eventually through all of
that recursion multiple levels deep,
in this case four more levels deep,
it'll eventually get to a branch
where the final y is returned.
Cuz there weren't any more characters,
that y will get
concatenated one level up in
the the call stack with the k and the y.
The k in the y will get concatenated
with the c and it'll be c-k-y.
And then, the c-k-y will get concatenated
with the u and it'll be u-c-k-y.
And finally we'll be back to our
original invocation of this check
function at the bottom of the call stack,
where we will get back from res
an array that has c-k-y in it and
we have the y that we just matched.
So we spread out the u-c-k-y sorry and
the y that we got, and
that's the final return, and
that's what comes out to our app.
Good chance that some of you watching this
still feel pretty iffy about recursion.
Maybe it's the first time anybody's
pushed you to really think recursively.
Unfortunately, I cannot teach
you an algorithms course without
forcing you to get more
comfortable with recursion.
There is just far too many things
that we can't do if we can't wrap our
brains around it.
And if I showed you the iterative approach
to this problem where we had to manage our
own stack,
I promise you it would be much worse.
Managing all of that stack yourself rather
than letting the JavaScript engine do
it is not something you wanna do.
That's not something for
the faint of heart.
It can't be done.
That should not be your first
algorithm that you write.
Managing your own call stack.
So we wanna take advantage of recursion
when we can because it's doing a lot of
work for us.
Why do the work when somebody
else can do the work for us?
I know it's a little smaller to read, it's
harder to fit on there, but I just wanna
Zoom out so we can approximately see
the whole thing on the screen all at once.
This is our whole first solution.
Now, we've gotta test it here.
But if I did things correctly.
Hopefully, we're able to go
through the reasoning of it and
you have a sense that
this is probably correct.
But we're about to test it.
I'll save that file and
we'll refresh here in a moment.
Just letting those of you that
are still typing catch up.
Again, remember, you've got the GitHub
repo with these solutions in it so
you can always do your DEF checks
if you missed an if statement or
something, if I move too quick.
Side note here,
a little question for you to ponder.
We think this is gonna work, but
what if we were not allowed to run a test?
Did you know that there used
to be a day when the process
of writing code was not
as simple as save and
automatic hot load refresh, rerun my test.
People would write programs and
spend days waiting for
those to get all punched out
onto a bunch of punch cards.
And then spend another
several days waiting for
some operator to put them through and then
they'd get in the mail the results of it.
And imagine if you would wait at all of
that time and you got back something and
it was like,
you miss the semicolon, right?
Or you had an off by one error and
you start it over with that whole process.
For us, it's real nice.
I just type the character,
I'm gonna go refresh the page and
we'll check if it works.
How would you get t o the point where you
had a level of confidence over this code
that you knew what it was gonna
do before you ran the test?
These are rhetorical questions.
There's no absolute right
answer to this question.
But I am taking an opportunity to give
myself another little plug, which is that
I have another workshop here at Front End
Masters called functional JavaScript.
Which teaches functional programming
principles in JavaScript.
And one of the premises of that course
is we should be able to get to the point
where the code that we write, we have
confidence enough over that code that
we know what it will do
before we run the test suite.
Doesn't mean that we don't test but
we don't run the test with our
fingers crossed, hoping for a green.
We run the test knowing that
we're gonna get a green.
That's a level of confidence that
is difficult to achieve with code.
But I'm just providing a little
plug that it's worth it.
This code is not that.
We would need to do code very differently
to get to a level where we were
absolutely certain at first
glance what this was gonna do.
But there is a way to do that.
And that's the way of the functional
programmer, I guess I'll call it.
All right, so with that little side note
aside let's switch back
over to our browser here.
And we're gonna refresh I didn't
get any JavaScript errors there so
at least I didn't miss
a semicolon somewhere.
Let's try it.
Our running example was yucky.
Let's just see what happens that worked
but that doesn't show you anything cuz
that was my previous example
let's try a different one.
Let's try the word because.
Okay, that's good.
What about the word unicorns?
I love that one.
That worked.
Here's a really strange word and
you're gonna wonder why on earth
am I gonna try the word pancreas?
Which can be spelled.
Here's why I know that the word pancreas
can be spelled with the periodic symbol
elements.
My daughter who's just about to turn 10,
two and
a half years ago she was
diagnosed with type 1 diabetes
which was right in the middle
of the worst of the pandemic.
And it was pretty rock our world upside
down our universe kind of events and
we're still digging up from that.
We are tremendously blessed that what we
have to be able to provide for her.
All the technology and
the doctors and all that stuff,
but we wanted to come up with
a phrase that she could spell
out of the periodic table elements
that was meaningful to her.
And we ended up suggesting and she
submitted in her project yucky pancreas.
[LAUGH] So there you go.
That's why I know that yucky and
pancreas can be spelled.
All right, so we have a working
solution to our problem, or
at least it seems like that we've
tested several problems and
there we're seeing double and
single letter responses coming back.
So it seems we're developing a little bit
of confidence that it seems like we've
arrived at a working solution.
How many of you feel confident that
we've arrived at an optimal solution to
this problem?
Anyone?
That's a leading question obviously I
wouldn't ask that question if I didn't
have a contradictory answer.
But I now want us to shift
our thinking up another gear
from I just got it to work to.
Now, I know why it's
doing what it's doing and
why there's potential downforce
to the way it's working.
So I wanna go back to the code now.
This by the way is our current state
effectively made of typed of comment or
variable slightly differently.
But this is basically what you
see on the option one branch.
So this is our option one solution.
We're now gonna talk about
redoing this in a different way.
And we're gonna talk about it
as the option two solution.
We'll be working towards option two, which
is a more efficient way of doing this.
So you wanna start with option one.
And if your code happens to not work
cuz you missed any of statement or
a variable name, just stash your changes
and check out the option one branch.
That's our starting point for
doing the next set of work.